Now one of the best ways in my opinion to actually use this soup object is to use the select method
on it and select allows us to grab a piece of data from the soup that we just downloaded and created
using what we call a CSX selector.
Now this is a Python course.
So we're not going to focus too much on CSX selectors.
I will link to a resource so you can learn more about them.
But a CSX selector allows us to access this data using well CSF selectors.
So if I Google here CSF selectors you see here that well it's a list of different ways to grab elements
on an HMO page we can use the class the idea the actual element.
So let me show you how to do that I can say for example select a and what is this going to do.
Well if I run this script it's going to select all the attacks.
OK.
That's nothing new.
We've seen that before.
We can do that for Dev as well if we want it to.
But we can go beyond just an element and say we want to select let's say the class score so this class
score can be accessed by using the dot notation.
So dot score is going to grab all the scores on the page.
So watch this.
If I clear this and run here look at that I grabbed all the spam tags that have scores on them.
So you see over here that this is just a list of all the spans because this span has a class of score
this span has a class of score and we can do the same thing with ideas so if you wanted to grab this
idea we simply say instead of a dot which stands for a class we do pound and then the idea.
So if I run this
we get this one span because this is the only one with this specific idea now I'll link to a resource
where you can learn about more C assess selectors.
They become really really powerful when you start selecting different complicated nested elements.
Let me show you.
Let's start to plan out what we want to do.
Now in here I'm going to close this for now I want to grab the link over here so that is the title and
the link of a story that has more than 100 points votes and everything else that doesn't have 100 points
like this one.
I just don't care about.
So I'm just filtering Get out.
So what we want to do is first of all grab this link and grab this votes.
So we also list out how many votes this story has.
So the way I'm going to do this is I'm going to right click click inspect what we know is that we want
to grab this link that has a class of Story link.
OK so just to double check if I go to this one over here and inspect you see that here.
This one has a class of Story link as well.
So let's just grab all the elements that have class story link and see what happens.
I'm going to say dot Story link because dot means it's a class.
And let's see what we get.
I'm going to run the file
and.
All right we get a ton of lists but it looks like they're all a tax.
So these are all links that we can use.
It looks like this is a list so we can probably grab it using the square bracket 0 to grab the first
element.
Let's see if this works I'm going to go.
I'm going to clear here and run this again.
All right.
Look at that visual information theory 2015.
That's the first item in here.
So it looks like Story link grabs us the tags the links for each one of these items.
OK.
What about votes.
Let's grab the votes as well.
I'm going to right click say inspect and what do we have here.
We see that we have class of score.
So let's just grab all the classes so I'm going to say that this is going to be links and that is well
just instead of grabbing the first item I'm going to grab all the links and I'm also grabbing.
I'm going to grab all the votes and all the votes are is going to be soup dot select and then grab what
was it again.
It was the score class.
So I'm going to say grab all the elements that have the score class and just to make sure that this
works.
But let's just say print votes and grab the first item.
So I'm going to run this and look at that.
I have one hundred and eighty points because the first story well let's refresh the page because this
may have changed.
Yeah.
It looks like C this Web site is constantly changing and now has one hundred and eighty two votes.
So if I refresh here there you go.
One hundred and eighty two points.
Awesome.
So we now have grabbed the two pieces of information that we really care about the links and the votes.
And luckily they're all in order because each link the first link and the first vote is together.
The second link and the second vote is together.
So that's useful for us now.
Just as a side note with beautiful soup we can keep chaining these right.
For example I can now say votes dot get and get for example an attribute name.
So for example I can grab a score over here and say Hey grab the score from here so that if I do print
here and I run this well votes is a list.
So we actually have to grab the first element.
So let's just grab the first element run this again and we get none.
Because while this is the value the attribute is I.D..
So if I do get I.D. for example and I run this I now get the actual I.D. value so with beautiful soup
you can keep chaining these we can keep selecting so I can say dot select here if I want.
If we have even more information.
But in our case we have the information that we need.
It's time for us to go to the next step which is to try and combine these and make it more useful.
So let's do that in the next video.